Add operator manual instructions to use a ZAP context for scans (DataBiosphere/azul-private#300) (#7603)
DataBiosphere/azul: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/zap_context_technologies_review.md

---
name: Update the ZAP scan context file
about: Template for the annual review/update of the web application vulnerability scan context file
title: Update the ZAP scan context file
labels: -,compliance,infra,no demo,operator
type: Chore
_repository: DataBiosphere/azul-private

> _start: 2025-10-01T09:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_start: 2026-01-01T09:00
```

… so that we don't have to wait a year before actually trying it out.

_period: 1 year
---

> - [ ] Exported the `Default Context` provided by ZAP to a file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Exported the `Default Context` provided by ZAP to a temporary file
```

> - [ ] Compared the exported file with [Azul Context](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul-private/blob/main/azul-zap-scan.context) and applied any applicable changes to the latter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Compared the exported file with [azul-zap-scan.context](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul-private/blob/main/azul-zap-scan.context) and applied any relevant changes to the latter
```

> - [ ] Opened a new PR with the resulting changes<sub>or no such changes exist</sub>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Opened a new PR with the resulting changes<sub>or no such changes exist</sub>

Relevant changes are those that add entries to the `<tech>` element, or that enable additional features. The `<alertFilters>` element should generally be left as is, because it controls what findings we deem false positives.
```

> - [ ] Opened a new PR with the changes resulting from the technology additions <sub>or no additional technologies available</sub>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
name: Update the ZAP scan context file
about: Template for the annual review/update of the web application vulnerability scan context file
title: Update the ZAP scan context file
labels: -,compliance,infra,no demo,operator
type: Chore
_repository: DataBiosphere/azul-private
_start: 2025-10-01T09:00
_period: 1 year
---
- [ ] Exported the `Default Context` provided by ZAP to a file
- [ ] Compared the exported file with <insert link here> and applied any applicable changes to the latter
- [ ] Opened a new PR with the resulting changes<sub>or no such changes exist</sub>
```

---
name: Update the ZAP scan context file

> about: Template for the annual review/update of the web application vulnerability scan context file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about: Template for the annual review/update of the web application vulnerability scan (DAST) context file
```

title: Update the ZAP scan context file
labels: -,compliance,infra,no demo,operator
type: Chore
_repository: DataBiosphere/azul-private
_start: 2026-01-01T09:00
_period: 1 year
---

> - [ ] Exported the `Default Context` provided by ZAP to a temporary file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Export the `Default Context` provided by ZAP to a temporary file
```

> - [ ] Compared the exported file with [azul-zap-scan.context](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul-private/blob/main/azul-zap-scan.context) and applied any relevant changes to the latter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Compare the exported file with [azul-zap-scan.context](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul-private/blob/main/azul-zap-scan.context) and apply any relevant changes to the latter
```

> - [ ] Opened a new PR with the resulting changes<sub>or no such changes exist</sub>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Open a new PR with the resulting changes, if any
```
